Book review: Oracle ADF Enterprise Application Development—Made Simple
######################################################################
:author: Michael Medin
:tags: forms, oracle, review
:image: /images/1889EN-Oracle-ADF-Enterprise-Application-Development-Made-Simple1.jpg
:social_image: /images/1889EN-Oracle-ADF-Enterprise-Application-Development-Made-Simple1.jpg

The best PACKT book ever?

Now don’t get excited!

This is not saying much; **most PACKT books are so bad I want to gauge
my eyes out with a fork!**

And indeed this book is no exception it has many flaws and I honestly
think is a bad book which suffers from lack of editing and peer review.

But is is ***a very very smart book*** and the author has managed to
pull something rather difficult off in very nice way. I think with some
editing this would have made a truly amazing book.

.. PELICAN_END_SUMMARY

Enterprise and development
==========================

The book is about developing “enterprise” applications with ADF. The
word enterprise here is actually not added to make it a bigger title.
The word is definitely used with intent and they often refer to the
difference between writing *normal applications* and writing *enterprise
applications*. I am note sure I always agree with them but I can see
their point and it is clear they want to diverge from people who wants
to build applications and websites targeted at other audiences.

The target audience the book has is, I think,
`Oracle <http://oracle.com/>`__ Forms developers and/or PL/SQL
developers, functional consultants, etc.  looking for a way to cross
over to the Java/ADF/Fusion camp.

Here is where the books really shines. It is almost eerie how
ingeniously the author manages to explain the difference between an
Oracle Forms development project and a ADF development project. Now this
is a difficult subject because if you go all out with
Java/git/maven/jenkins/etc you end up scaring the crowd off where as if
you just explain the ADF parts you end up with crappy developers. The
author manages to balance this with amazing precision. I often feel when
I read it “Yes, that is exactly the kind of things Oracle Forms
developer don’t understand - but need to”.

So while the book on the one hand does a poor job of describing ADF
(though you do get some sense of it from the step by step tutorial and
examples) it on the other hand does an amazing job at describing the
development workflow changes and the difference in how a *modern
developer* work in comparison to how a developer would have worked (and
still do in many Enterprise departments) back in the 90:s. And I think
this will probably be a bigger challenge for most people wanting to make
that switch.

And as I said I often feel that the level is just right: every single
thing you need to understand is covered and the ones you “should know
about” is mentioned so you know where to go for more, it is almost
eerie.

The problem: Lack of editing and peer review
============================================

The main problem with the book is that is suffers from what I think is
poor editing. one prominent ting is that the author has a tendency to
create rather silly and bad analogies with are often wrong and does not
really work.

One such example is when he mentions that a tunnel digger would first
drill a tiny tunnel and then dig it out sideways to full width. Now
first off I am not a tunnel digger and know nothing about it but I am
pretty sure most tunnels today are drilled in the exact shape and form
needed. But that is besides the issue the point here is that the analogy
makes no sense at all and adds nothing (unless the reader happened to be
a tunnel digger). I am sure there are plenty more analogies which would
have made more sense to use. I think this is something a good editor
could have a helped him with.

The other bad thing is that while much of the content is very good some
of it is flat out wrong and you can often tell the author has probably
recently done this journey himself which means he does not understand
some of the concepts and many of the suggestions lack some options which
I think should have been there. I think with a co-writer or some peer
review from someone already in the "Java/ADF" camp this book would have
been slightly better.

But don’t let that discourage you if you are a PL/SQL or Forms developer
looking at fusion (or just looking for a way out): This is definitely
the book for you and while it will not make you a master ADF or Fusion
developer it will help you understand how the world has change in the
past 10 years how this affects you as a developer. And this could very
well be the bigger leap!

The content
===========

Looking at the content the book is designed to be read from beginning to
end and it is designed to explain how the project will (often) look from
beginning to end (and by end we mean the first delivery).

The book starts off describing how you would do ***1. The ADF Proof of
Concept*** and how you should approach that to make it a successful
proof of concept.

The we have a chapter (***2. Estimating the Effort***) on estimation
which describes how you you would approach estimating a project like
this often explaining important minor details such as how the expected
effort will shift through the project.

Next up is chapter (***3. Getting Organized***) which explain the various
roles involved in a modern ADF development project and what you need in
terms of staffing to pull this off.

Then we have a full chapter (***4. Productive Teamwork***) on setting up
the project infrastructure things like wiki, ticket systems and version
control is all in here. This is when I started to almost like the book
there are some missing bits and pieces here as well as some odd ones but
all in all it really explains how you can create and work in a modern
development environment and even how you can connect this to your IDE
and even some bits in how to work in your IDE to become more productive.

Then chapter ***5*** titled ***Prepare to Build*** explains how to
organize your work. after which finally we return to ADF. But even in
“ ***6 Building the Enterprise Application*** ” they focus more on the
non code related things and this is pretty much it about actual ADF
development and next up is instead a chapter dedicated to testing which
is unsurprisingly named “7 ***Testing your application*** ”.

The next few chapters return again to ADF and actually contained a lot
of interesting bits as chapter 8 and 9 deals with customizing
applications. Chapter ***8 Look and Fell*** provides some basic insight
into the world of CSS and modern web development but also the role this
plays in ADF. Here the book starts dealing with how to customize an
application after it has been written and how to prepare your
application for customization which is followed by a chapter dedicated
to customizing the logic (and not just the UI) called “ ***9. Customizing the Functionality*** ”.

Finally the last two chapters deal with security (***10 Securing your
ADF application***) as well as how to package the application (***11
Package and deliver***). This chapter surprisingly went so far as to
explain how and why you should build the code from subversion an
approach I think is excellent as it reduces the human errors often
encountered in manual build processes.

Summary
=======

***Is the book any good?***

Well the book is by far the best PACKT book I have ever read it does an
excellent job at explaining how to live in a modern world of Java and
ADF. It actually does it so well I wrote this review just for that
reason.

***Is the book any bad?***

It has numerous flaws where the main one I feel is the lack of a good
editing but that is to be expected from a PACKT book right?

***Am I satisfied with the book?***

No I was hoping for a more in-depth ADF book myself but alas this is not
it (not even close). I would even go so far as to say for me as a Java
developer this book did not teach me much I did not already know.

***Am I dissatisfied with the book?***

No, not really, as I said it is a great book for Forms developers and to
be honest I bought it during the x-mas sale for $5 and for all it flaws
it was worth $5. That said had I bought the book at full retail price I
would have been rather dissatisfied (but I doubt I will ever pay full
price for a PACKT book).

***The bottom Line?***

If you are a Oracle Forms developer looking for a way out I seriously
think this is the book for you!

Book information
================

| |1889EN Oracle ADF Enterprise Application Development-Made Simple|
|  ***`Oracle ADF Enterprise Application Development—Made
  Simple <http://www.packtpub.com/oracle-adf-enterprise-application-development/book>`__***

+-----------------+--------------------+
| Author:         | Sten E. Vesterli   |
+-----------------+--------------------+
| Language:       | English            |
+-----------------+--------------------+
| Pages:          | 396 pages          |
+-----------------+--------------------+
| Release Date:   | 2011-06-??         |
+-----------------+--------------------+
| ISBN            | 1849681880         |
+-----------------+--------------------+
| ISBN 13         | 9781849681889      |
+-----------------+--------------------+

.. |1889EN Oracle ADF Enterprise Application Development-Made Simple| image:: /images/1889EN-Oracle-ADF-Enterprise-Application-Development-Made-Simple1.jpg
   :target: http://www.packtpub.com/oracle-adf-enterprise-application-development/book
